Downloaded from
YTS.MX
In Autumn 2019.
I got a call from a source.
Official YIFY movies site:
YTS.MX
He asks me.
"Have you ever looked into Wirecard?"
"The payment processor? No."
"It's a very strange company."
"Companies are being set up."
"Money comes in. money goes out."
That is totally spooky.
He'd been called by foreign friends
who used to work in intelligence agencies.
and they warned him.
"Are you interested in Wirecard?"
"Keep your hands off it."
Mr. Braun. reports about your business
read like a financial thriller.
Bogus sales.
balance sheet manipulations.
many allegations.
The former COO.
Jan Marsalek. is on the run.
The biggest fraud scandal
in German history.
There's
an international manhunt for Jan Marsalek.
It's unbelievable how something
like this can survive for so long.
It was clear to me
this was going to be a huge story.
Scammers take advantage
of people's desires.
In Germany. the desire was.
"We want to be at the front of the pack."
Germany's industry is extremely successful
but very old. very traditional.
These famous German brands
like Siemens. Daimler. BMW. Volkswagen.
these are all very old companies.
That's why German politicians
and German business people
are often asked.
"Where are actually your new companies?"
We want a major. global.
digital champion of our own
like in Silicon Valley.
The German Google. the German Facebook.
And Wirecard played
on that desire beautifully.
Wirecard was like the German PayPal.
Wirecard the processor
for online trade. online shops.
They make sure when I buy something.
the money gets from my credit card
to the online retailer.
There's a company founder dressed
in a black turtleneck
with a neat turn of phrase…
…who presents himself as a visionary.
The "Steve Jobs of the Alps."
Wirecard is one of
the fastest-growing
financial commerce platforms.
Wirecard jumped
on the digital train in the '90s
that continues to pick up speed.
and now Wirecard
has even overtaken Deutsche Bank
with their worth placed
at over €20 billion.
A symbol
for the new era of the finance sector.
This was a company on the rise.
It grew unlike any other company
we'd seen in Germany.
And that rise. that immense growth.
led many people to believe in it.
New. successful.
global. profitable
and German politicians were proud
to be able to say.
"Hey. We have a FinTech company!"
When the chancellor went to China.
she actually campaigned
for Wirecard in 2019 with Xi Jinping.
Everyone in Germany
believed in this company.
No one would have believed
that this was the work of gangsters.
Outside of Europe.
we see a growth of 25%
strongly driven by new regions.
by developing regions of Asia.
My name is Tobias Bosler.
and I have been.
for many years. a short seller.
Most people invest
thinking a share price will rise.
A short seller differs from an investor
by making money when a share price falls
and loses money when it increases.
I investigated Wirecard for two years.
I understood its business model perfectly.
It handled payments for online businesses
in pornography and online gambling.
but it wasn't illegal.
What would you call them?
- Are you joking?
-I'm not joking.
The poker market in the US
was 50% of the global poker market.
But that all changed in 2006
when a new law in America made it illegal
to handle payments
for US citizens playing poker.
So Wirecard lost a major source of income.
But. in spite of this law.
the profits of Wirecard kept rising.
What company is able to do that?
This can't be right.
In Germany.
short sellers have a bad reputation.
The perception is because they are betting
on the share price dropping.
they are actively seeking
to destroy companies.
Jobs are lost and that can't be good.
The Zatarra Report
wasn't seen as credible.
The criticism was always.
"What kind of report is this?"
"There isn't enough evidence
to back up its claims."
"It's just mud-slinging
because German companies
do not make mistakes."
It was seen very strongly as an attack
on Germany itself. on German companies.
A few weeks
after I opened the short position.
I got a call from the Wirecard lawyer.
He says. "You are short-selling Wirecard."
I thought. "How did you figure that out?"
He read me all the transactions.
Date. time. amount. rate.
He knew everything.
Then he says. "We need to talk."
He arrived with two thugs.
They looked exactly
as you imagine thugs to be.
Straightaway they pushed me
and punched the wall with full force.
I admit I was really scared.
What company sends a bunch of thugs
to an investor's office?
After that.
I stopped looking into Wirecard.
I let it be.
And no one else looked closely
into Wirecard.
except Dan McCrum.
My dear shareholders…
Well. if I find a weak spot. but I'm…
It's not working. It's not cold enough.
Marsalek is a completely different type.
Extremely charming.
very approachable. a great communicator.
Everything Braun didn't have.
Marsalek had.
which is why they were a great team.
I think that very few people knew
who Jan Marsalek really was.
He is certainly
at the center of this scandal.
He is the one
who made sure that the turnover
was always the way his boss.
Braun. wanted.
The German Stock Exchange
is richer because of one company.
The payment-processing company.
Wirecard. from Aschheim near Munich
has made the leap
into the stock market premier league.
Wirecard's share price last year
was €77.40.
Today it stands at €189.40.
Our figures tell a story
of strong growth.
How our business is valued
is a question for the investors.
Wirecard has shaken up
the German stock exchange this week
and kicked the Commerzbank
out of the elite DAX index.
A lot of investors
believe in German values.
and now it has the DAX seal of approval.
So a lot of people thought a DAX company
would be tightly regulated
by the German authorities.
Who wouldn't be thrilled
to have money invested in Wirecard?
-What's with the glasses?
- Best without glasses.
I only heard about
the Financial Times' coverage secondhand.
NEW ATTACK ON WIRECARD
It was the typical bias.
They said. "It is a foreign conspiracy
against a German company."
"A German company is the victim
and must be protected."
Wirecard had hired
a famous lawyer in Bavaria.
The lawyer said
to the public prosecutor. Baumler-Hosl.
that Wirecard is under attack
by short sellers
and its very existence is in jeopardy.
Hildegard Baumler-Hosl contacted
the German financial regulator.
The regulator BaFin then said.
"We need to protect Wirecard."
And banned short-selling
of Wirecard shares.
And even filed criminal charges
against Dan McCrum and Stefania Palma.
This financial thriller
continues with the latest punch-up
between Wirecard and the Financial Times.
In February.
there were new articles and allegations
and the share price fell again.
At the end of March.
new accusations were published
and the share price collapsed once again.
A BILLIONAIRE ON THE DEFENSIVE
- Sound running.
-Okay. Let's start.
How do you personally go about scandals.
confusion. chaos?
Have you ever thought about resigning?
I've never thought
about resignation.
Can you exclude the possibility
of more dirty laundry airing
that will put the share price
under pressure?
We firmly reject
these serious allegations.
We think these allegations
are mainly market speculations.
At the Frankfurt stock exchange.
Wirecard has announced its annual results.
increasing its profits by 35%.
an increase of €350 million.
and says it will continue
to grow this year.
Drink as much as you can take. here!
-Hey. I'm Nick Gold.
- Hello. Nick. How are you?
What sort of size business
were you thinking of doing?
At the moment.
they are looking at investing €50 million.
Okay.
There was a short seller. Nick Gold.
who met with an investor
who secretly recorded him.
This is as good as it gets in terms of--
-We know the article's coming.
-Okay.
And I bet it's gonna be today.
We know now that this investor
was actually a private detective
who was hired
by someone associated with Wirecard.
I'm Jorg Schmitt
from the Süddeutsche Zeitung.
I'm the chief editor
of the investigations team.
I was at my desk when I suddenly
got a call from an unknown number.
On the other end was a young woman.
She said.
"Are you interested in Wirecard?"
"Do you know Prinzregentenstrasse 61?"
"It's the secret office of Jan Marsalek."
Even colleagues closest
to Marsalek didn't know
that there was this second office
in the Prinzregentenstrasse.
He would meet
with a very illustrious circle of people.
do business. and host wild parties.
It's Marsalek's boy gang. I'd say.
We always find Martin W..
who had been
in the Austrian secret service.
El-Obeidi.
a former Libyan intelligence officer.
Stani. a Russian who was supposedly
in Munich visiting his sick mother.
but we think he was probably an FSB man.
a Russian secret-service agent.
So suddenly
we had three former intelligence agents
who were in and around
the Prinzregentenstrasse.
And the thing is the Prinzregentenstrasse
is not just anywhere in Munich.
It is directly opposite
the Russian consulate.
There is obviously
a secret-service connection.
That electrified me.
Why might Marsalek be so interesting
to intelligence agencies?
Wirecard is a company
through which there are billions
of transactions every year.
And these payments are gold mines
for the secret services
because they show who could be compromised
because their creditcard information
could show porn usage.
brothel visits. or whatever else.
To have a source like Marsalek
who is always
on the move around the world.
that makes a lot of sense.
Vienna is sadly mostly
an inviting terrain
for intelligence officers.
for dubious characters.
spies. economic spies.
Border security in Libya was a topic that.
for a COO of a company like Wirecard.
wasn't normal in the slightest.
As time went on. I asked myself.
"What does he want in Libya?"
"And why does he seem
to be getting support
from within the Austrian government
for a project
that doesn't have humanitarian aims?"
If you ignore negative trends
or if you let immigration go unchecked.
things will go downhill very quickly.
It is logical that if Russia
wants to destabilize Europe.
they would try to create anxiety
over supposed waves of refugees
to create a narrative
that heats the debate again.
Marsalek has very good contacts in Russia.
That's why it's plausible
that Jan Marsalek could have been trying
to set something up for the Russians.
It's criminal to wiretap journalists.
It's criminal
to hack their email accounts.
The worst part was that this intimidation
was quite successful.
The Financial Times had launched
an internal inquiry into Dan McCrum.
and Wirecard made the most of this time.
and its market price kept rising.
They even got the German Chancellor
to promote the company in China.
All this happened in those months
when the Financial Times
didn't write anything critical
of Wirecard.
Dr. Markus Braun. you've decided
to carry out an external audit
due to the allegations
that the FT have made.
The question is. "Why only now?"
Well. we reacted very quickly.
The newspaper article was published
only over a week ago.
At first. Braun didn't want this inquiry.
We reject these allegations 100%.
People at Wirecard must have known
that this is going to be troublesome.
When will the auditors present
their report?
I don't want to jump the gun.
but we think within a few months.
We believe
we will have results very quickly.
My name is Joachim Giehl.
I am Markus Braun's neighbor.
I always had the impression
that this man is under
a massive amount of pressure.
He greeted nobody as his neighbor.
He always just got in his car.
No hello. no nothing.
There was one day. around 8:30 p.m..
I parked my car in the garage.
It was dark. and I saw Markus Braun
at the entrance to our building.
I saw him in the lamplight.
and he looked extremely tense.
He was surrounded by some men
whom I didn't recognize.
They seemed out of place.
They didn't look like businesspeople.
They looked like people
who work as security. bodyguards.
a group of thugs…
…or people like that.
They didn't look
like they were there to protect him.
Rather. I thought they were there…
…to do a job.
It was called "Project Panther."
a plan for a hostile takeover.
A large consulting company
put a document together
which showed how it could make sense
to merge an old bank
with a new tech company.
The "Wirebank."
or whatever it would have been called.
The idea was
if you merged these two companies.
with the Deutsche Bank balance
being so much bigger than Wirecard's.
that then maybe the fraud at Wirecard
would somehow get swept under the rug.
Auditors can
no longer locate €1.9 billion
that are said to be
in escrow accounts in Asia.
The two banks
in the Philippines
where the €1.9 billion was supposed to be
said today
that they had no business relations
with the payments processor.
The documents were faked.
The share price plunged by 70%.
Ladies and gentlemen.
on behalf
of the management board of Wirecard.
I would like to give
the following explanation.
The press conference that night
was like The Muppet Show.
Braun reads from the teleprompter.
The death sentence
has already been handed out.
and he's still making it seem
as if he's going to announce
an amazing quarterly report next month.
Right now.
it cannot be ruled out that Wirecard
has become the damaged party
in a fraud case
of considerable proportions.
Where is the COO
of the insolvent payment processor.
Wirecard. the Austrian. Jan Marsalek?
An agent always has an escape route.
We knew that Marsalek was in the office
until that Friday afternoon.
He supposedly said
he had to go to the Philippines
to clear the whole thing up.
He went for dinner
with Martin W. that evening.
Martin W.. who he knew
from the Prinzregentenstrasse
and who used to be
in the Austrian secret service
together with an Austrian.
right-wing politician
booked Marsalek a flight.
Marsalek paid close to €8.000 in cash…
and then his trail disappeared.
He didn't go to the Philippines.
It doesn't make sense.
He couldn't have entered the country
because of quarantine regulations.
There are databases
where you can check flight data.
Since 2015.
he flew at least 60 times to Russia.
And there was one flight
from a small airport near Vienna to Minsk.
It's not far from Moscow.
The border to Russia is not controlled.
and that's where the trail is lost.
After that. it's just rumors.
We don't know for certain if Marsalek
was actually a secret-service informant
or not.
Jan Marsalek was
very well-connected
in the secret service parallel world.
and that's why I think he won't be
that easy to find.
We know
that he's online occasionally
via an old Telegram account.
I can check again.
He's been online every few months.
The last time was on May 27. 2021.
The German parliament has started
a political inquiry into Wirecard.
one of the biggest scandals
of the German republic.
A financial disaster for those
who invested their money in Wirecard.
It was
the first DAX-listed company to go bust.
I think that Wirecard's inner circle
who knew what was really going on
was very small.
Certainly Marsalek.
The fascinating question is.
"What did Braun know about all this?"
He wasn't emotional.
He was very tense.
And then he gave
a short opening statement.
"All I can say… is we were all deceived."
"I'm a victim."
And then his lawyer said
he won't answer any further questions.
He really sat there for three hours
and didn't answer.
I think so far.
we only know the tip of the iceberg.
Unless Jan Marsalek turns up somewhere
and breaks his silence.
only then will we get the full story.